---
tags: autistica, turing, citizenscience, wireframing
---

# Wireframing workshop | 27 March 2020

:::info
- **Event:** Autistica/Turing Citizen Science wireframing workshop
- **Date:** 27 March, 2020 10:00 - 15:30 (GMT)
- **Hosts:** Kirstie Whitaker & Georgia Aitkenhead
- **Contact:** kwhitaker@turing.ac.uk & gaitkenhead@turing.ac.uk
- **Zoom room:** *This event has concluded*
- **Hackmd notes:** https://hackmd.io/@KirstieJane/WireframingMarch2020
:::

## :dart: Agenda

| Time  | Activity |
| ----- | -------- |
| 10:00 | Welcome and norm setting: 1-hour |
| 11:00 | :coffee: Biobreak |
| 11:15 | Personas and pathways: 1-hour |
| 12:15 | :yum: LUNCH 1 hour |
| 13:15 | Welcome back |
| 13:30 | Wireframing: 55-minutes |
| 14:25 | :coffee: Biobreak |
| 14:40 | Participatory user experience research: 35 minutes | 
| 15:15 | Reflections and next steps 15-minutes |
| 15:30 | Close |

## üëãüèΩ Part 1: Welcome & norm setting - 1 hour

*The aim of this session is to make sure everyone feels welcomed, respected, and included.*
*We will collaboratively develop guidance for today and for ongoing collaborative co-creation.*
*We will publish the guidelines on GitHub and keep them open for community feedback.*

| Time  | Activity | Description | Lead |
| ----- | -------- | ----------- | ---- |
| 10:00 | Welcome | Overview of [code of conduct](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/AutisticaCitizenScience/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and purpose of the session | **Kirstie** |
| 10:10 | Small group discussions | In breakout rooms discuss what norms you'd like to set for participatory co-creation with a diverse community, particularly (but not limited to) autistic people and their families | all |
| 10:25 | Report back | One person from each group share a summary of their conversation with the whole group | all |
| 10:40 | Think-pair-share | Individually reflect on the discussion for 2 minutes and then share those insights with a partner. Particular focus on anything that has been missed from the discussion so far | all |
| 10:50 | Report back and finalise guidance | Adjust guidance together in the hackmd notepad | **Kirstie** |

### Guidelines for inclusive co-creation

#### Remote participation

* Please mute when you aren't speaking
* Remember that your keyboard is noisy when you're typing!

#### Group discussions

* Groups that are more diverse have better discussion
* See who is speaking in your group?
* Is someone having difficulty being heard?
* Aim to have a fair discussion, don't fixate on one argument
  * If having a disagreement when discussing your topic, take notes of both (multiple) arguments and move on!
* Changing groups after each session is totally fine

Inspired from the materials of ["Ally workshop - Frameshift Consulting"](https://frameshiftconsulting.com/ally-skills-workshop/)

### Questions for the breakout discussions

- Can you think of someone or an event that created the most appropriate situation (for you) for inclusive co-creation?
- What behaviours limit your ability or motivation for inclusive co-creation?
- Are there any questions that you (in your breakout group) would like to ask the broader community?

### Notes from Group 1

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

Can you think of someone or an event that created the most appropriate situation (for you) for inclusive co-creation?

* Rooms that give people permission to say what they're thinking
* When there are no wrong answers: when people aren't afraid to say the wrong thing!
* Spaces with the appropriate tools in place to connect with people as they need
 * GitHub, Google Sheets, Zoom for example

What behaviours limit your ability or motivation for inclusive co-creation?

* Difficult to truly have everyone feel included - there are lots of different aspects and dimensions
* Not shooting down people's opinions
* Training and support to learn how to use the tools

Are there any questions that you would like to ask the broader community?

* Are there other tools that we'd want to provide to support the community?
* Are there barriers that aren't addressed just yet?
* How do we manage the asynchronous aspect of co-creation? How do we deal with people contributing at different times?

</details>

### Notes from Group 2

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

Can you think of someone or an event that created the most appropriate situation (for you) for inclusive co-creation?

* I was teaching in China a few years ago, and there was a community discussion with the kids and the teachers - it really helped us to empathise with each other! 
Some of the children were autistic, and it was very interesting to have their perspective.
* Being able to collabroate with others sharing different ideas and viewpoints - which gives an idea and perspective in turns.
* Delivering a community of practice based interactive media course to learners with diverse needs. 

What behaviours limit your ability or motivation for inclusive co-creation?

* A restriction of personal development and growth. 
* Not having the necessary in-depth knowhow or understanding
* Sense of not being expert enough
* Been spoken down to or condescended to
* Not having the confidence to speak in public
* Role responsibilities 

Are there any questions that you would like to ask the broader community?

* How can I (individually) support you (specifically)?
  * By actively engaging with the knowledge and acknowledging preferences and structure.
  * Providing lots of information and different resources.
* How are you finding remote working!? What would help? 
  * A regular chat or forum (e.g. once a week/month), consisting of ideas, tips or suggestions.
  * It will provide opportunites and feedback.
  * Would welcome further input from the commnity on UX

</details>

### Notes from Group 3

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

Can you think of someone or an event that created the most appropriate situation (for you) for inclusive co-creation?

* Fujitsu DTC
* Autistica sessions (built to be creative & inclusive)

What behaviours limit your ability or motivation for inclusive co-creation?

* Be inclusive of everyone's view
* Don't talk over people
* Being too proud to let go of your own idea

</details>

### Notes from Group 4

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

Can you think of someone or an event that created the most appropriate situation (for you) for inclusive co-creation?

* Miguel: In their project have been working with existing groups to see if they can help to see how to work on inclusion, e.g. visual disabilities 
* Bastian: Experience with different inclusion, of communitites directly in setting goals and achieveng them around citizen science projects
* Ekatarina: Worked in investment banks and law firms, can't remember projects where inclusion was high on the agenda

What behaviours limit your ability or motivation for inclusive co-creation?

* Ekatarina: Mindset is barrier in my settings, more competitive environment, doesn't allow for inclusion. All banks have inclusion program, but in real life not reflected
* Miguel: People tend to feel more included and participate more actively if they recognize each other in the group
* Bastian: incentive structure in e.g. academia. Do I have time and funding for building inclusion?
* Ekatarina: chain of command, are higher ups on board or tell you not to care?

</details>

### Notes from Broader community discussion

* how to do remote working succesfully - are we using the right tools?
* helpful to have everyone take ownership of their participation
* keep bringing people in - keep looking for voices that aren't represented yet
* Leaders in Co-creation course at Fujitsu - run hack sessions
  * Give people lots of different ways to contribute
  * Take people out of their comfort zone

## üë• Part 2: Personas and Pathways - 1 hour

*The aim of this session is to compile a list of the different groups of people who will use the platform.*
*We will then map out how these different user groups will move through the platform.*

| Time  | Activity | Description | Lead |
| ----- | -------- | ----------- | ---- |
| 11:15 | [Personas and pathways presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1chIyNNdkCq0-O9e4Yqu8OXBmUcc9dHWQeOT1FJUHVzI/edit?usp=sharing) | An overview of the purpose of personas and pathways exercises. | **Kirstie** |
| 11:25 | Personas and pathways work so far | A presentation on what work has already been done within the citizen science project. | **Chris** |
| 11:35 | Small group discussions | In breakout rooms discuss the personas and pathways you imagine are required for members of the citizen science project community. | all |
| 11:50 | Report back | One person from each group share a summary of their conversation with the whole group | all |
| 12:05 | Focus group summary presentation | A presentation of the summary information from the focus groups in November 2019 | **Georgia** & **Otis** |
| 12:15 | Lunch, and requested reading | Please read the summary documents over your lunch break | all |

### Personas and pathways work so far

* Presentation from CL: https://blm1j3.axshare.com/#g=1&p=ux_deliverables_ref

### Questions for the breakout discussions

- What personas do you think are needed for this project, particularly focusing on any that are missing or underdeveloped at the moment?
- What effective pathways should we consider to allow the people in your personas to participate fully in co-creating the project?
- Are there any questions that this breakout group would like to ask the broader community?

### Notes from Group 1

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

What personas do you think are needed for this project, particularly focusing on any that are missing or underdeveloped at the moment?

* Careful with language - neurotypical vs autistic for example 
  * Two documents - personas separate to pathways? 

What effective pathways should we consider to allow the people in your personas to participate fully in co-creating the project?

* Current tool is not open or inclusive - it doesn't appear anywhere publicly yet
  * Important to document the work a little more accessibly
  * Important to link the personas to the evidence that derived them!

Are there any questions that this breakout group would like to ask the broader community?

* Where will these details live?
  * They can be uploaded to the GitHub repository for the project 

</details>

### Notes from Group 2

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

Group members:

What personas do you think are needed for this project, particularly focusing on any that are missing or underdeveloped at the moment?

* People who are both autistic themselves and the parents or carers of autistic people (there is a potenetial option to define what kind of user they are - experience can be more supported)
* Autistic moderators
* Different dimensions of diversity - (intersectionality in autism - for scientific validity AND ethical responsibility)

What effective pathways should we consider to allow the people in your personas to participate fully in co-creating the project?

* Use of aids (hearing/visual)
* Having a personalised plan or agenda
* Guidelines

Are there any questions that this breakout group would like to ask the broader community?

* What is the best approach for autistic users to get the full use of this platform?
* How do we meet the potential and growth whilst maintaining a safe working environment?
* Review any issues or suggestions/views

</details>

### Notes from Group 3

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

What personas do you think are needed for this project, particularly focusing on any that are missing or underdeveloped at the moment?

* Need to consider how an autistic carer logs experiences. Do they have 2 accounts?

</details>

### Notes from Group 4

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

What personas do you think are needed for this project, particularly focusing on any that are missing or underdeveloped at the moment?

* Missing persona: Kids younger than 18 
* Maybe missing persona: Dividing autistic users as there's a large diversity 
* Missing persona: members of NGOs or other organizations working on autism-related issues
 
</details>

### Notes from broader conversation

* People wear multiple hats (e.g. autistic parent) - can you have multiple accounts? 
* Persona of autisic moderator is important to consider
* How do we deal with children who want their own accounts?
  * Distinction between ethics and legal requirements
  * Online harms legislation which is on its way may be relevant to consider

## Welcome back & reflections

* Important to relate tools and techniques to real examples of people who know others who are autistic, or who are autistic themselves
* Be open in sharing different ideas and reviewing them 
* Structure and layout - have different ways of demonstrating technique 
* Formalising the structure and have a section that has no jargon to help people to understand. It would be good to have a glossary, and index, and a simplified version of text and guidelines
* Some words neeeding further explanation for those unfamiliar: 'persona', 'pathway'
* Find the right choice of words that people can relate to, in order to get a general consensus of what ideas and principles matter. 
* For some, tech is almost like a second language (translations for tech language, but also resources to learn it might be good)

Reflections about summaries: 
* What to do when there are conflicting opinions? 
  * eg: commas separating the codings - some people liked them and some really didn't
    * Suggestion: can build some technology to allow people to see alternative options


## üë©üèæ‚Äçüîß Part 3: Wireframing - 55 minutes

*The aim of this session is to visually map out the platform at a structural level.*
*This includes basic layout, links, and features.*
*These will be based around the personas and pathways identified.*
*The wireframe can be sketched out on paper, or created using wireframing tools.*

| Time  | Activity | Description | Lead |
| ----- | -------- | ----------- | ---- |
| 13:30 | [Wireframing presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Z2psy1FXrXD-l4u3Z8GfR3z8EAsesZe5fIZlbc27W9k/edit?usp=sharing) | An overview of the purpose of wireframing. | **Georgia** |
| 13:45 | Wireframing work so far | A presentation on what work has already been done within the citizen science project. | **Chris** |
| 14:05 | Think-pair-share | Individually reflect on the discussion for 2 minutes and then share those insights with a partner. Particular focus on anything that has been missed from the discussion so far | all |
| 14:15 | Report back | Capture small group reflections in one document | **Kirstie** |


### Wireframing work so far

* Initial UX deliverables iterations (subject to change): https://blm1j3.axshare.com
* Initial User Interface mockup screens: https://2huje4.axshare.com

### Notes from the discussion

* Discussion of presentation on wireframes by GB
  * Better to showcase a "low fidelity" wireframe than a "high fidelity" version - its hard for folks to take a step back to the fundamental question that you're looking for feedback on in the high fidelity version - and you will get advice on features rathr than structuree
    * The more finished something seems, the less the feedback is about the structure and more about the fundamental purpose
  *  Keep wireframes as bare bones as possible
  * Identify the _purpose_ of the wireframe - what are you asking for feedback on?

* Questions for GB
  * How do you come up with categories and how do you develop them?
  * By working with the funder: they gave us an initial list, and we changed it. For this stage the wording doesn't have to be perfect. 
  It is a placeholder in the wireframe. 
* Eligibility target? They have a sense of who their audience is - we've been doing user research since November, focus group style workshops, journey mapping, different types of potential applicants, close to 20 interviews with previous applicants or potential applicants
Funding high risk work in dangerous regimes 
Communities who are applying are very stressed and have a very different way of communicating about their work - months of user research
TS: tooling of wireframe creation - any particular tools around distributed collaboration of wireframes - distributed community driven project 
GB: Wiresketch - work together sketchin on paper; Balsamique; teams work in sketch or publish to Figma 
OS: Question about budget - any restrictions? For somebody looking into it?
GB: On the page on the slide - grant - not too many limitations, funder has a lot of flexibility, more whether not their idea matches the funders purpose, less to do with the type of organisation, and more if they match or are in line with what the funder is supposed to be spending money on. Trying to direct people to the right funnel of money - this is their catch-all fund - eligibility wizard? 
KW: Soliciting more questions from people by keeping it rough - how to do that for links between the different windows - best done through a software, or ways of drawing out conceptually how people might move through - are flow diagrams accesible
GB: flow diagrams are accesible to a specific set of people - my next step would be to show these to users and then figure out which things we want to test, test with potential applicants - wouldn't show an end user a flow diagram - use a slide deck to show people links - Wizard of Oz - actually a technical term in the design commuity - you can do the same thing in paper - big flow diagram is not necessarily accesible to that type of user

### Think-pair-share

*Please add your reflections on wireframing*

* I really like GB's point about minimalist design and wireframes encouraging certain kinds of feedback: very important!
* I think a powerpoint slide deck might actually be the most accessible way of communicating this - it will be really easy for folks to download and run on their computer.
  * We just need to think about how to collect feedback (maybe through the Google form?)
* Take a step back and go to low-fi wireframes and see if we can agree on what we'd like there
* Design, look and feel of the app and the wireframes themselves is massively important, the platform design will need to cater for diversity within the community. 
* It is important to try to reduce the information on each page to the absolute minimum, to not overload the users. 
For example, on the home page perhaps several of the links might not be there, and be reserved for later pages. 
Although some of them may be natural to find there, it could make navigation easier.
* Link-up between Open Humans and Autistica services to ensure join-up is as seamless as possible.
* Suggested that there's too much information on the first page of the wireframe, maybe including what the service is and the log in information is enough.


## üôåüèæ Part 4: Participatory user experience research - 35 minutes

*The aim of this session is to build on the guidance at the start of the day to crete guidance for participatory working.*

| Time  | Activity | Description | Lead |
| ----- | -------- | ----------- | ---- |
| 14:40 | [Participatory UX work so far](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/AutisticaCitizenScience/blob/EllenDevereux-patch-1/project-management/1_to_1_Sprint_User_Review_sessions_guidelines.md) | A presentation on what work has already been done within the citizen science project. | **Ellen** |
| 14:55 | Small group discussions | In breakout rooms discuss the next steps required for participatory user experience research with a diverse community, particularly (but not limited to) autistic people and their families. | all |
| 15:05 | Report back & develop guidance| One person from each group share a summary of their conversation with the whole group building on guidance developed earlier in the day | all |


### Questions for the breakout discussions

- What aspects of today's discussions did you enjoy the most? Can we continue using that in our participatory user experience research?
- What aspects of our discussion should we improve?
- Are there any questions that this breakout group would like to ask the broader community?

### Notes from Group 1

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

What aspects of our discussion should we improve?

* Concern about how we're sourcing folks - important not to "outsource" that but to monitor it actively
  * The formal language is a barrier - sets up expectations appropriately 
* Need to communicate expectations - both before and after the call - is there aftercare?
* Clarify the purpose of the UX 1:1 sessions
* Add opportunity to contact directly with feedback
* Need to create a script so that folks know what to cover in the conversation
  * Think about structure of the meeting
* Concerned that folks who are expected to view the video and notes etc might not do the work and/or not understand the work
  * Are there questions to ask to check that they've done it and understood

</details>

### Notes from Group 2

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

What aspects of today's discussions did you enjoy the most? Can we continue using that in our participatory user experience research?

* I liked the breakout rooms! It was nice to have smaller groups
* It was good to hear from Georgia B - good to hear about other working practices
* It would be good to do a collaborative workshop and design things on paper with everyone's input
* Would be good to be able to share things as and when, but with some moderation process too

What aspects of our discussion should we improve?

* Would be nice to sketch things 
* Develop personas further as a group - would be beneficial! 
* We need more collaborative tools where we can all pick up and add notes 

Are there any questions that this breakout group would like to ask the broader community?

* How do meet the criteria and needs of others whilst making the use of the platform as clear and concise as possible. 
  * Have a guide or share information in relation to the project in a simple and effective way.
  * A trial and error approach.

</details>

### Notes from Group 3

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

* TA has experience of this process and says it went well. 
Could use "give permission" tool on skype to allow an autistic person the ability to express their opinions more clearly/in a different way.

</details>

### Notes from Group 4

<details>
<summary>Click here to expand this section</summary>

What aspects of today's discussions did you enjoy the most? 
Can we continue using that in our participatory user experience research?

* focus on the current state of the project in the general meeting and have discussions in the breakout rooms

What aspects of our discussion should we improve?

* maybe front-load parts of the one-to-many sharing of resources etc. to before the meeting (especially when online), to have more interactive time during the call
* taking notes in breakout rooms: maybe designate one person per room in advance to make sure each group has notes

Are there any questions that this breakout group would like to ask the broader community?

* regarding the sprints: is there only a single 1:1 after each sprint, or is there a number of them?
* What are the next steps forward from here?

</details>

### Notes from the general discussion

* Is there only one session per sprint?
  * Yes, because we need to turn it around quite quickly
* Also important to think about different types of 1:1 meetings.
Are we still going to record these in the same way?
* Chris has asked questions to Fujitsu re: legal requirements 
  * Important to link with ethics requirements
* TA had a conversation already about early versions - went really well. 
  * Guidance on IT, check in with participant to make sure they can use the technology effectively
  * Send information in advance to share screens etc
  * Send a write up of the comments, and ask folks to maybe highlight additional points that they want to emphasise in particular
* Consider moderation process - make sure we capture everything but acknowledge that there might be different opinions

## üòå Part 5: Reflections and next steps - 15 minutes

*The aim of this session is reflect on the wireframing workshop and identify next steps for the community to take forward.*

| Time  | Activity | Description | Lead |
| ----- | -------- | ----------- | ---- |
| 15:15 | Reflections | Everyone is invited to share their thoughts on the day | all |

### Notes from the discussion

* It would be useful to be able to take over the screen and direct when doing user testing.
* Enhancement to feedeback process - send round comments for approval, and also say one or two comments which you feel especially strongly about.
* Have a shared protocol of testing technology and also setting expectations of what the purposes are of those conversations
* Make sure that new members of the community can join in halfway thorugh
* At a later sprint, and we don't get complacent around assuming a lot of knowledge. 

## üîó Useful resources: 

Simply secure has a great intro to wireframing: https://simplysecure.org/blog/wireframing-intro

A few good online wireframing tools:
* [InVision](https://www.invisionapp.com/feature/freehand) - very simple to use (just like drawing) and good for collaboration
* [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) - A a few more features and prebuilt templates
* [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) - more sophisticate option, would be good for working with designers.

Ethical design:
* [Ethical Design: The Practical Getting-Started Guide](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/03/ethical-design-practical-getting-started-guide/) - some useful things to keep in mind when designing, like particularly the 'best practices sections'
* [Ethic in UX design](https://usabilitygeek.com/ethics-in-user-experience-design/)
* [Daily ethical design](https://alistapart.com/article/daily-ethical-design/)
  
Governmenet guidance on designing for people with autism:
* [Designing for users on the autistic spectrum](https://github.com/UKHomeOffice/posters/blob/master/accessibility/dos-donts/posters_en-UK/svg/autistic-spectrum.svg)

Links to resources from Autistica on remote working, Covid-19, and accesibility:

* [Making online events accesible to autistic people](https://www.autistica.org.uk/what-is-autism/accessible-online-events)
* [Impacts of Covid-19 for autistic employees](https://www.autistica.org.uk/news/impacts-of-covid-19-for-autistic-employees)
* [Coping with unvertainty](https://www.autistica.org.uk/what-is-autism/coping-with-uncertainty)

Links for coffee and lunch breaks
* Timer: https://cuckoo.team/wireframingworkshop
* Calming lights youtube video: https://youtu.be/1IkY0_qONRk
* Jellyfish video: https://youtu.be/gdJjc6l6iII

![](https://i.imgur.com/KkDWt9V.jpg)
