# Summary AutSPACEs Meet-up 

When: Thursday 8 April 2021, 12:30 - 14:30 BST ([see in your time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2021-04-08/12:30))

Attendees: (11)
* Kirstie W (KW)
* Sophia B (SB)
* Lotty C (LC)
* David M (DM) 
* James S (JS)
* Paul C (PC)
* Otis S (OS)
* Susanna F (SF)
* Reehan (R) 
* Suzanne I (SI) 
* Robin T (RT)

| Agenda Item | Notes | Contributors |
|:--|:--|:--|
Introductions | <p> Introduction of Lotty Coupat who is new to the project and will be working as the community manager. Any questions, don’t hesitate to email her: ccoupat@turing.ac.uk. <p> Introductions of all attendees at the meet-up. | All
Session 1 | __What is the purpose of the project?__ <br /> Each member wrote down what they thought the purpose of the project is. <p> Kirstie went through each and the group evaluated each answer. <p> Answers seemed to miss the aspect of “Sensory processes” and how the project aims to look at how this is impacted specifically. <p> The project is also not just limited to the UK. | KW, LC, DM, PC, R, SI, RT
Breakout 1 | __Recap of last session__ <p> Reviewed current Code of Conduct <p> Discussed moderation and potential for read only version of rules, terms and conditions whilst on the page <p> Challenge around capturing the immense range that is neurodiversity - difficulties with re-writing experiences due to individuals not having an awareness of context. <p> Process for clarifying stories needs to be time efficient without taking away from the actual story <p> Trigger warnings | OS, SB
Breakout 2 | __Moderation Discussion__ <p> __How does the AutSPACEs project use Open Humans tools and processes:__ <p> A few members understood some aspects of Open humans and how it helps the project. <p> Open humans allow you to upload data and code and allows the owner to have control over their data. <p> For quantitative data it can create insights <p> Data flow for project: Someone records experience on our front end website --> Information goes to Open Humans computers --> Information comes back to our front end website for users to read (if story is public) | KW, LC, DM, PC, R, SI, RT, JS, SF


