# 25 May 2021 Meeting

KW, LC, GA, SB, SR, AR

Success from meeting:
-	AR meets everyone
-	KW to be updated 
-	Agenda confirmed for Meet-up 
-	Agenda for developer meeting with JK

SB's Update:
-	PhD Student at Leeds
-	PhD Scope shifting so also works on AutSPACEs as support for projecgt scoping and Project management as well as technical documents 
-	Met up with GA, SB, SR and LC last week to discuss page of pages 
-	Page of pages to bring everything together as currently lots of documentation is dispersed – seen as a table of contents or index
- Needs to be sufficient for all the needs, therefore looking into three categories that need to be addressed
-	Recap email sent of what was discussed (sent 25/05/21) with survey to address user needs
-	Technical spec doc still in progress
-	SB – not available for meet-up this Thursday 
-	KW – prefers to move away from notion and more towards GitHub! Agreed in group. 

SR Updates:
-	Masters in Digital Sciences in Paris and joined as an Intern for 3 months
-	Interest in web development and implementing prototype 
-	Django Html bootstrap – mock landing page developed with picture and video and also includes email ID 
-	Nest steps to work on experience page according to issues in GitHub and mapping out issues to form a Roadmap 
-	Communicating to work on Issues to help platform development work 

AR Updates:
-	Freshman at College Studying Computer Science in India 
-	College work is currently WFH 
-	Met SR last Thursday and LC today 
-	SR and AR have made a brief plan of how to approach issues – categorising issues on where they go and splitting them between SR and AR
-	Timeline for GSoC – currently community bonding, engaging with the GSoC community, June 7th coding begins
-	2 periods of reporting, 1st report July 12th on what has been achieved, final report for verification by LC and KW, once submitted it’s the end of the GSoC period
-	Weekly updates into Neurostars for AutSPACEs project – comment to the AutSPACEs post
- KW: If Anoushka misses the reporting she will not get the money 
- LC and Kirstie not to miss the deadlines for reporting!! GSoC do are NOT lenient
- KW: Neurostars other GSoC as part of INCF – Ar to connect with them, good citizenship and building a community
- AR to meet Malvika – no urgency but would be good! Connect to Turing Way project
- AR to capture these in the GitHub repository in md
-	Working hours – minimum 18 hours per week/3 hours per day – currently working the whole day as it in the holidays – June school starts – most productive times her evenings/BST lunchtime 
- Manage expectations on how many hours AR can join 
-	Goal to work with SR to build the platform – big task – goal to set aside time that is available and progress as much as possible - building full platform will most likely not be possible in the space of time both SR and AR 
-	Important for SR and AR to work collaboratively using GitHub
-	KW: prefer time to be more spaced out, working it into college time rather than full days every day 

GW Update:
-	How would GW fit into the picture of helping AR
- KW: GW used to be the only one on the project, LC came along to separate tasks
- SR & AR leading on development work (GitHub, needs of platform, focusing on how to move work forward)
- GA strengths in understanding context of the work and how it fits in from a research perspective, focus on writing what we have done, future funding
- LC community manager, person who knows what’s going on, connection to different things, AR & SR to go to ask LC and then she will loop in GA or whoever has the question, responsible for archiving the responses, processes, and pathways 
-	Milestones for Platform development to set up what needs to be done from platform development - hand it over to SR, AR and LC

KW Update:
-	Very committed to changing how we do science – how we build the platform – the openness and transparency 
-	Courage for people to ask if they don’t know how it works 
-	Clarity for SR and AR that if they need to take time off to take time off for whatever reason
-	AR: What would be the next agenda for Platform Development?
- Action: LC to move project proposal 
- AR and SR to connect on project proposal – work on the same thing together (co-working) 
- AR and SR to figure what they will be working on and keep LC in the loop
-	GA: handover of MVP requirements list, Roadmapping in milestones- handover to LC to add in Roadmap 
-	LC, SR and AR to link together – action: platform development co-working 

Agenda for JK – linking together, we need from that meeting:
- The MVP list
- SR turn up to the meeting with any questions/gaps you have for taking the development forward 
- Actions to be handed over from JK to SR and AR
- GA and LC prepared for meeting – MVP and roadmap – oversight by SR 

LC Update:
- Over from the Civil Service on secondment to the Alan Turing Instutute
- Community Manager for the next 6 months 
- Mentoring both SR and AR

Agenda for Meet-up:
- Github introduction in main room, moderation and platform development brekaout rooms.

-	Important thing to do is the define a bar to entry into breakout rooms
- This would include what do you already know, what background knowledge do you need as this reduces the risk of getting side-tracked
-	Platform development – same sort of thing - GitHub knowledge, competency in Python, understands purpose of the project
-	We need to establish a “Welcome to the project” space 
-	Finding facilitator for quiet reading/personal working space
-	Need to define the goal of breakout room 
-	If people are interested in learning about Platform Development (python) we need to create another breakout room another meet-up
-	Not super clear how we will assess if the people are successfully intro-ing to GitHub – making it more interactive – inclusion of PR and branching but as a hidden power, show people the history of a file, why we version control
-	GSoC application – includes information about GitHub, helpful
-	Prepare answers on why we use GitHub 
-	Purpose of understanding the project – getting involved in the project 
